guys let me let me start this way before
i ask anna a question i'm going to ask
you guys a question okay
and i want you to think about it what's
the point of life
we can't help but desire certain things
as part
it's kind of as stephen once described
it an axiomatic part of our nature
we have no choice but to desire our
pleasure we have no choice
but to have other people's pleasure as a
derivative of that and therefore have a
sense of morality
now that might not be philosophically
groundable but if it's not grounded in
me then it's not grounded in god either
no
seriously um once i give you the answer
i think that a lot of you will say well
yeah obvious it's obvious and
what do you think is the point of life i
think
and i think logically it is inescapable
but the point of life
is to get the most out of life the most
enjoyment
out of life now i don't know why nobody
ever tells you that
and even if you were saying a jig of
course i was saying get most enjoyment
out of life of course that's the right
answer what else would we do
oh and it doesn't nothing else even
makes sense
um okay but then the next layer to that
is
how how do you get the most enjoyment
out of life one of the most interesting
things about the psychology of free will
to me is that it's impossible
to not kind of live with that illusion
that you do have free will i mean
i can fully rationalize the idea that
free will is ultimately
an illusion but it still feels like i
have it interestingly i think that if
you ask someone who believes in free
will
probably needs to be an atheist for this
to be reliably the case but if you ask
them
what they think brings them meaning life
you know what is it that infuses their
life with meaning
they'll probably say something like well
i like pursuing pleasures you know the
pursuit of happiness is one of the
things detailed in the declaration of
independence for a reason because it's
seen as one of the most
important ways in which a human being
can find meaning and purpose in life
and the anti-free will argument doesn't
remove that
it further entrenches it but anna
do you see people doing this do you see
people going oh you know what
i figured out my life i figured out what
makes me the most happy for example i'll
give you my example in a second
of what makes me the most happy and i
figured it out in the short term and the
long term and i know that that's my
objective
and that's why i've been leading my life
uh with
that in mind to get the most out of it
i i haven't seen too many people do that
so but maybe i'm being ridiculous maybe
everybody's doing that and they're like
jake we're all so happy
and we all know that what are you stupid
i'm tempted to just upload this video
with those first few minutes
and no further commentary no further
reflection for myself it has to be said
with many of these discussions
the people engaged in them are so stupid
and so insincere
that the facts are quite immaterial are
quite irrelevant
to the ensuing debate it's
shocking to me it's scary to me that
hundreds of thousands of people are
taking this kid
cosmic skeptic and putting him on a
pedestal
and treating him as a real philosopher
treating him as a real leader
in both the vegan movement and the
atheist skeptic
anti-religious movement when he in a
self-serving way
fabricates the facts his arguments rely
on
when he makes these claims about things
he hasn't even looked up in
wikipedia now my first university group
was in political science
it seems to me the best known factoid
in the history of the united states of
america is that the memorable phrase
life liberty and the pursuit of
happiness was a
very slight propagandistic rewording
of life liberty property that the
philosophy set down by
john locke but not only john locke
really
many authors of that time was life
liberty property and
inasmuch as you want to pin this on
thomas jefferson
dare we forget that property
for him in his philosophy
included the ownership of slaves
and if we're talking about this reckless
self-serving self-centered
hedonistic view of the world that life
is just about pleasure it's just about
enjoyment is just about utility
maximization
the ownership of slaves doesn't that put
all of those things
in a very different really meaningfully
different
frame of reference what if all of a
sudden
you don't have to do your own laundry
you don't have to fold your own clothes
you don't even have to go out and find
someone to date
and buy them coffee and take them out to
dinner
in order to have sex actually
all of your material and emotional needs
can be satisfied by owning someone
not even paying them a salary and if
they defy you
with your slightest whim whether that be
doing your laundry
or making love to you you can have them
beaten
you can have them chained you can have
them punished and
thomas jefferson wasn't a
moderate supporter of slavery i don't
know why it is the cosmic skeptic in one
video after another is invoking the name
of thomas jefferson as this
you know great intellectual luminary
who's a positive inspiration to him
there have been books written and
recently dealing with
the extent to which thomas jefferson he
did have his own philosophy nobody talks
about it
nobody quotes it nobody wants to talk
thomas jefferson was a philosopher it's
a terrible philosophy
it's a mind-blowingly racist philosophy
he was more racist
than other people in his own time he was
more more pro-slavery than other people
in his own time
it wasn't even popular in his own time
let alone today
the philosophy of thomas jefferson
here's this here's this kid
who's being embraced as a leader of
the vegan movement this atheist skeptic
secularist anti-religious movement and
nobody seems to have a problem
with him premising his claims again and
again of the moral authority of thomas
jefferson
and where he doesn't even stop to look
this stuff up on wikipedia to establish
really really simple facts like the
relationship between
jefferson's doctrine of the pursuit of
happiness
and john locke and the fact that really
this was just another way of saying uh
property
at a time when the fundamental function
of government was seen to be the defense
of property rights
and when property rights included owning
slaves you should be confident in who
you are you should be confident in your
preferences and your hobbies
and not really care about anyone who has
anything negative to say about it
about it yeah but everybody says that
nobody actually
does it i do it okay well that's awesome
a very large
part of what middle-aged men do with
philosophy
is seek to justify the decisions they
already have
made in their lives and to come up with
a rationale for the decisions
that they are yet to make in the future
jank wieger of tyt certainly is one such
middle-aged man
this kind of self-justification is
remarkable to me
because it doesn't even make sense
as a description of the world as it
already
is as it already functions
let alone as a kind of analysis that
would lead to a better life for
some kind of improvement whether on the
most intimate scale of just
one two three people on the larger scale
of society as a whole
i don't think we can understand why
people choose to major in philosophy
to spend thousands of dollars and tens
of thousands of dollars and sacrifice
years of their life
to the study of a subject that for most
people can never lead to any kind of
employment
instead of say getting a degree in
dentistry
getting a degree in nursing getting a
degree as an x-ray technician
or not getting a degree at all devoting
their life to
cocaine and skiing i'm canadian
cocaine and skiing go hand in hand in
this country i am aware of the laughably
self-serving dogmatic doctrinaire series
of no true scotsman fallacies
that will ensue whereby they claim that
everyone in the world
no matter how seemingly self-sacrificing
their behavior is
no matter how blatantly it is that they
are suffering in order to do
humanitarian work or they are suffering
in order to engage in
research or to read a book that is in no
way entertaining or gratifying them
whether the example be of the tiniest
form of self-sacrifice or the most
granules
they will forcibly interpret this as
being for that person's pleasure
being for that person's enjoyment or
claiming that for example
a muslim who decides to cut off part of
his own penis
in this terrible circumcision ritual
invented by my own religion judaism by
the way
um that someone who engages this they
are in fact
doing this for their own pleasure that
people who choose to remain virgins
until marriage or
take up vows as a monk and remain
virgins until the day they die as a monk
as a nun or what have you
that all of this is for their own
pleasure never stopping to realize that
they have taken this step
into a non-falsifiable dogmatic
self-justifying
religious worldview a view that can
neither
be described as philosophy nor as
science i'm
very well aware of what all of these
arguments are
but the question i want to ask you in
this video is
simply why why
bother to argue this way why take
the tremendously rich diversity of human
experience that we have in front of our
eyes
and force it into this analysis
whereby all human motivations are
reduced
to pleasure what is it that motivates
these men
to look at the world and say everything
i see around me
is just as shallow as i am myself
we can't help but desire certain things
as part
it's kind of as stephen once described
it an axiomatic part of our nature
that we have no choice but to desire our
pleasure in case you think
that conversation jank wieger had about
hedonism
proceeds to some more profound
introspection
he asks his co-host anna kasparian what
she thinks of this philosophy of life
he's adopted
and she proceeds to tell us how she's
proud that she had a nose job
that she's proud she had plastic surgery
to change the shape of her face
because she thinks that she looks great
and that when people on the internet say
that she's ugly or shallow or made a bad
decision in getting a nose job
that just doesn't affect her at all
because she knows she looks great and
she's enjoying her life
like i think i look really damn good
right like
the nose job doesn't like bringing up my
nose job
makes me realize i spent money on
something that worked
the enjoyment of life becomes
philosophically an excuse for many other
things
but the most fundamental excuse it is
most invisible to these people who've
cultivated
this excuse-making mentality in
themselves is that what they're doing is
making an excuse
for their own shallowness they're
projecting it
onto the world and they're insisting
that when they look at other people
all they're seeing are automatons who
are powerlessly
pursuing their own pleasure that what
they're seeing is a world populated by
people
just as shallow as they think they are
themselves
you know what the tragedy of it is i
don't even believe that they're that
shallow
i don't believe that jank weaker has
lived his life in the way that he
describes
i don't believe that cosmic skeptic
right now is living his life
for such shallow reasons i think all
these people have profound
concerns ethical concerns political
concerns philosophers i think they have
all kinds
of motivations to make the world a
better place and to become better people
themselves but ironically in a very
public discourse
that begins with criticizing and
repudiating mainstream religions
like christianity judaism and islam what
they've
ended up doing is propounding one of the
only philosophies in the world
that i can sincerely say is worse
than christianity judaism or islam
i can honestly say this particular type
of left-wing self-indulgent hedonism
is worse than living your life with the
vagus notion of doing the right thing
just because it's the right thing to do
a notion that people have managed to
derive
from terrible books like those written
by muhammad
like those written by ancient prophets
of judaism like ezekiel
in the final analysis the conclusion
that there is some reason to live
other than pleasure is going to beat the
argument that life is about pleasure
that life is just about self-indulgence
that life is just about your own
self-centered happiness
each and every single time no matter how
mind-blowingly stupid that philosophy
or religion may be